At the moment I have this flexion phase, and I have this straightening phase
of my embryo,
my digestive tract is quite low at first.
And if you look at your palate now, you see that it's ogival like this.
But before, in fact, it was rather low.
Because at the same time that I have this straightening phase inside,
I have this descent of my pterygoids downwards,
I have this ascent here,
and I have a traction of my digestive tract that does this, that goes up.
So it's there and in this development, it makes a movement like that, there.
And in fact, what is it pulling there?
It's the development process for the tongue.
And at the same time, I'm already going to add a part called the thyroid.
The thyroid comes from the tongue.
In this section here of the embryo, it represents here what is called the endodermal part.
And we see pharyngeal arch number 1 which is here, which corresponds to this one, pharyngeal arch number 2, 3, 4.
And we see here, in pharyngeal arch number 1, in the development phase,
and this happens at the same time as my embryo's straightening phase,
we see appearing on the surface here, in fact, what is called the layer of the lateral tongue.
And we see here, between...
the part here, what is called branchial arch number 2,
a tuberculum called the tuberculum impar,
and at the end of this small tuberculum here,
we see a small hole appearing,
a small space called the foramen cecum.
You see the tongue developing here,
and in the straightening phase here of my embryo,
it must be understood that it is much larger,
the small space we call here,
well, it's already there.
All of this has grown and it gives this image of a hole called the foramen cecum which will form the thyroid system.
So it's a global growth with a point, this time, which is a fixed point that is placed here.
In development, it's as if it's being pulled.
So at the beginning, it's there and it does that in relation to the development here.
That's where you have this ogival system.
That's why we say that the depth of...
the tongue, represents
the depth of
telencephalization. I have this
straightening of the embryo, I have
the foramen cecum that was here, which we see
and pricked there, pricked there,
pricked there, with all the formation.
Another cut that shows us the same drawing.
I see laterally here
what is called Meckel's cartilage,
the tongue, and in the phase
of straightening, there is an error
in the arrows. We should
put the arrows in the other direction.
To understand the dynamics of this area here, it's like a tearing between there and my diaphragm.
I will have a tearing of my muscles with the thyroid cartilage becoming a fulcrum for all of this.
I can press and I do all this straightening here.
Regarding my tongue, it means that stabilizing a tongue and stabilizing a vagus nerve,
is to give the point of balance at the level of my thyroid cartilage and my hyoid bone.
Your tongue is your first postural activity.
The child straightens up when he starts to have his first teeth,
because these are points of support with his tongue.
We seek precision with his tongue.
It's like the wings of the bird, of the eagle, your diaphragm,
which can really open,
but it opens in this whole phase of opening and stretching,
almost a tearing of the neck muscles,
with specific points of support that are made.
And so that's how everything can stretch well.
And in fact, what we are always looking for is to have our points of support.
to breathe. Because every time you swallow your saliva, you will close your teeth and your tongue will completely flatten, it will try to block all the small holes. If a tooth is missing, it will seek this contact on the side.
It will move and therefore it will deviate your axis. And I discovered that in relation to this axis
longitudinal which is the axis of my median line, therefore an autocordal, in relation to all this
the impact goes very far into the body
and among other things up to the level of the pelvis
and sometimes you have pelvic deviations
which are an expression of an occlusal imbalance
in relation to what you can do on the lingual plane in fact
and so by remodifying, raising, restoring
the system can find its points of support
so now why does everything go crooked
there are memories in the teeth in fact
it's the strongest densification zone
So that means it keeps the so-called karmic charge, as they say.
It's what will remain of you.
So understand this dynamic well, where we see that in this phase of development,
you see laterally, we have what are called the palatine tonsils,
the parathyroid, the thymus and the ultimobranchial body.
And inside here, we still have, from the foramen cecum, the thyroid,
and which corresponds in fact to each arch.
which is called the mandibular branchial arch, thyroid, superior laryngeal, inferior laryngeal.
It's not that it starts from the tongue, but it starts from all the space around here.
Inside, completely here, the endodermal tissue, so digestive,
in the system, the cartilaginous system, and outside, the epiblastic system.
In 15 days, I have my notochord.
On the 27th day, I have the complete closure of my neural tube, 28th day,
at the same time as the integration.
then after I have the straightening of my embryo which begins to happen completely so it's
after the first month so this whole complete phase develops between the second month and the third month with a specific chronology knowing that at the end of the second month you really have a complete form of an embryo one could say that it's already the second month
of this phase with very specific lines and specific synchronicities each arch
in the calyx is composed of the exterior
towards the interior epiblastic ectodermic inside it's all that mesodermic with
the cartilaginous vascular part etc and inside it's all that is endodermic
automatically and influence each other because the ectoderm and the endoderm are dependent
on the mesoderm so that's what we call the outer tissue is dependent on the inner tissue
it's the one that brings it's the royal road that brings the information too
the nutritive information you understand a little this dynamic how finally in this
phase of development the tongue the thyroid the parathyroid develops it's only a
response to this complete development phase with each time new points of support new fulcrums that will develop you must learn to follow these fulcrums learn
to understand them and to be able to orient yourself you will see in practice it expresses itself
When we are in the right tissue resonance, the body recognizes it.
The great fulcrum is your navel.
The pelvis must be well cleared, well free.
That's very important.
And then, naturally, the SSB.
That's why we very often start by treating a pelvis.
Do I have good dynamics?
I almost always start by looking at the pelvis.
As we had seen, one of the first practices we had done was the sacrum,
in relation to this sphenobasilar symphysis, because they are...
So if I work on a sacrum or a pelvis, ultimately I am already working on a sphenobasilar symphysis.
We don't work on a sphenobasilar symphysis on the sphenobasilar symphysis.
It's as if we were working the entire periphery towards my sphenobasilar symphysis.